---
layout: default
title: 100DaysofRobotcs
permalink: /projects/100dor
---

# 100 Days of Robotics

I am making this curriculum while I go. I keep in mind about people like me who did not come from robotics or engineering background, but with basic maths and enough of python basics, so that one can learn the fundamentals and get a grasp by hands-on practice.

There will be days which would look like can be done in one day but actually because of life or coding errors would take more than 1 day but that is fine! I am hoping to make this challange as something to teach and learn for the sake of love for it and not to impose artificial deadlines!

I will be laying this in 6 phases, namely,
- Phase 1: Foundation & Simulation environment
- Phase 2: Perception & Mapping
- Phase 3: Motion Planning & Control
- Phase 4: Learning & Adaption
- Phase 5: Advance Integration & System Design
- Phase 6: Final Project

After I have update at least the Phase 1 fully, then I will release the github repo for everyone to use as reference. Meanwhile you can check on my timely updates in my [twitter](https://twitter.com/tumaro1001)

---

### Phase 1: Foundation & Simulation environment

**D1 - first robot**  
`>>` install all python and dependencies.  
`>>` install [PyBullet](https://pybullet.org/wordpress/index.php/forum-2/)  
`>>` define a simple robot with URDF  
`>>` give basic movement functionality  
`>>` simulate it.  

**D2 - programming for robots**  
`>>` Know basic functional python  
`>>` know how URDF works, joints and links, etc.  
`>>` after going through documentations to check how to move the joints like `setJointMotorControl2` code the movements  
`>>` make the robot dance smoothly in a pattern  

**D3 - robot simulation environment**  
`>>` install MuJoCo  
`>>` tinker with mujoco models formatted in xml  
`>>` learnt how to work with mujoco xml; coordinates, movements, etc.  
`>>` setup complex obstacle environment in mujoco  
`>>` custom WASD movement with mujoco  

**D4 - physics in simulation**  
`>>` understand what physics engines are  
`>>` tweak around the basics of gravity and collision with BOX2D  
`>>` in MuJoCo, experimented with different gravity.  
`>>` experimented collision between a sphere and a squishy cube.

**D5.1 - learn the theory of representation**  
`>>` Learnt about system presentation  
`>>` learnt about system translation and rotation in simple states  
`>>` learnt to apply rotation in 3d space  
`>>` learnt about homogenous transformation to trivialize transformation in higher spaces.  
`>>` studied the euler angles and euler rotation theorem  

**D5.2 - theory for forward and inverse kinematics**  
`>>` used tkinter to visualise a 2D forward kinematics principle  
`>>` learnt all the necessary inverse kinematics and joint angles  
`>>` learnt how to solve for IK with both trigonometric and intersection of circle methods  
`>>` created a dashboard with tkinter to update the arm with given end point co-ordinate  

**Day 6: Intro to Robot Sensors and obstacle detection**  
`>>` learn pygame and pymunk to simulate  
`>>` study collision detection theory - Separated Axis Theorem  
`>>` simulate collision detection  
`>>` add bounce back path after each collision  

